OpenCV module is basically used in this implementation to control the 
gestures. This system basically uses the web camera to record or capture 
the images /videos and accordingly based on the input, the volume 
of the system is controlled by this application. The main function is to 
increase and decrease the volume of the system. The project is 
implemented using Python, OpenCV. We can use our hand gestures to 
control the basic operation of a computer like increasing and decreasing 
volume. Therefore, people will not have to learn machine-like skills 
which is a burden most of the time. This type of hand gesture systems 
provides a natural and innovative modern way of non-verbal 
communication. These systems have a wide area of application in human 
computer interaction. The purpose of this project is to discuss a volume 
control using hand gesture recognition system based on detection of 
hand gestures. In this the system is consist of a high-resolution camera 
to recognise the gesture taken as input by the user. The main goal of 
hand gesture recognition is to create a system which can identify the 
human hand gestures and use same input as the information for 
controlling the device and by using real time gesture recognition specific 
user can control a computer by using hand gesture in front of a system 
video camera linked to a computer. In this project we are developing a 
hand gesture volume controller system with the help of OpenCV, Python. 
In this system can be controlled by hand gesture without making use of 
the keyboard and mouse.
